Update Tracing integration documentation (#203)
kiali/kiali.io: content/documentation/distributed-tracing/index.adoc

=== In cluster URL

In order to fetch data from Jaeger, Kiali needs to get an URL that can be resolved from inside the cluster, typically using Kubernetes DNS. This is the in_cluster_url configuration. For instance, for a Jaeger service named `tracing` within `istio-system` namespace, Kiali config would be:

```yaml
  external_services:
    tracing:
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tracing.istio-system/jaeger'
```

icon:bullhorn[size=2x]{nbsp} If you use the Kiali operator (recommended), this config can be set in the Kiali CR. But in most cases, the Kiali operator will set a valid default in_cluster_url so you wouldn't have to change anything. If you don't use the Kiali operator, this config can be set in Kiali config map.

Once the url setting is set on the Kiali CR, Kiali will show...

image::menu_external_link.png[Distributed Tracing View]

== External URL

Configuring an external URL for Jaeger will enable more links from Kiali to Jaeger UI. This URL needs to be accessible from the browser (it's used for links generation). Example:

```yaml
  external_services:
    tracing:
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tracing.istio-system/jaeger'
      url: 'http://my-jaeger-host'
```

> Once the in_cluster_url setting is set on the Kiali CR, each service page will have the new Traces tab where a scatter plot will be displayed with its related traces.

Reviewer: This sentence better describes the previous section (in cluster URL)

:icons: font
:imagesdir: /images/documentation/tracing/

> == Distributed Tracing

Reviewer: Suggestion: remove this title
```suggestion
```

> Kiali shows tracing of your applications. We currently support Jaeger version 1.9 and newer (link:https://www.jaegertracing.io[Read docs, window="_blank"]).

Reviewer: Suggestion: link directly on Jaeger word

```suggestion
Kiali shows tracing of your applications. We currently support link:https://www.jaegertracing.io[Jaeger, window="_blank"] version 1.9 and newer.
```

> In most cases, the traces integration in Kiali should be enabled by default without any specific configuration. Kiali will look for the `istio-tracing` service in namespace `istio-system`. However if your setup differs from this default, you would have to provide a specific configuration.

Reviewer: Suggestion: remove paragraph, it's redundant with what we say below

```suggestion
```

> Note also that configuring an external URL for Jaeger will also enable more links from Kiali to Jaeger UI.

Reviewer: Suggestion: remove paragraph, it's redundant with what we say below

```suggestion
```

== Configuration

=== In cluster URL

> In order to fetch data from Jaeger, Kiali needs to get an URL that can be resolved from inside the cluster, typically using Kubernetes DNS. This is the in_cluster_url configuration. For instance, for a Jaeger service named `tracing` within `istio-system` namespace, Kiali config would be:

Reviewer: Just adding backquotes

```suggestion
In order to fetch data from Jaeger, Kiali needs to get an URL that can be resolved from inside the cluster, typically using Kubernetes DNS. This is the `in_cluster_url` configuration. For instance, for a Jaeger service named `tracing` within `istio-system` namespace, Kiali config would be:
```

```yaml
  external_services:
    tracing:
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tracing.istio-system/jaeger'
```

> icon:bullhorn[size=2x]{nbsp} If you use the Kiali operator (recommended), this config can be set in the Kiali CR. But in most cases, the Kiali operator will set a valid default in_cluster_url so you wouldn't have to change anything. If you don't use the Kiali operator, this config can be set in Kiali config map.

Reviewer: Just adding backquotes
```suggestion
icon:bullhorn[size=2x]{nbsp} If you use the Kiali operator (recommended), this config can be set in the Kiali CR. But in most cases, the Kiali operator will set a valid default `in_cluster_url` so you wouldn't have to change anything. If you don't use the Kiali operator, this config can be set in Kiali config map.
```

> Once the in_cluster_url setting is set on the Kiali CR, each service page will have the new Traces tab where a scatter plot will be displayed with its related traces.

Reviewer: After looking at the result, I think finally the screenshots should be moved below (after configuration)

```suggestion
```

> image::service_traces_tab.png[Service View]

Reviewer: Move below

```suggestion
```

> We can interact with the jaeger UI with the external links, for example "View Trace in Tracing" goes to the Jaeger UI trace view.

Reviewer: Move below

```suggestion
```

> image::trace_view_jaeger.png[Trace View]

Reviewer: Move below

```suggestion
```

> == External URL

Reviewer: Missing an equal

```suggestion
=== External URL
```

> Configuring an external URL for Jaeger will enable more links from Kiali to Jaeger UI. This URL needs to be accessible from the browser (it's used for links generation). Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring an external URL for Jaeger will enable links from Kiali to Jaeger UI. This URL needs to be accessible from the browser (it's used for links generation). Example:
```

```yaml
  external_services:
    tracing:
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tracing.istio-system/jaeger'

>       url: 'http://my-jaeger-host'

Reviewer: To be more consistent with in-cluster-url
```suggestion
      url: 'http://my-jaeger-host/jaeger'
```

```

> Once the url setting is set on the Kiali CR, Kiali will show...

Reviewer: Removing mention of Kiali CR (might be config map as well)

```suggestion
Once this URL is set, Kiali will show an additional item to the main menu:
```

image::menu_external_link.png[Distributed Tracing View]

icon:bullhorn[size=2x]{nbsp} You may have `url` configured and not `in_cluster_url`, for instance, if Jaeger is not accessible from Kiali pod. In this situation, Kiali will not show its own traces chart but will display external links to the Jaeger UI instead.

=== Other configuration

For advanced configuration on Jaeger integration, please refer to link:https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/c78f195fcbe214e56a918d616ed2f241be24c968/operator/deploy/kiali/kiali_cr.yaml#L433-L470[the Kiali CR description, window="_blank"]. It is relevant for config map as well, if you don't use the Kiali operator.

> == Tracing Toolbar

Reviewer: Putting here text moved from above. Trying at the same time to reformulate a little bit to avoid using "we" in texts.

```suggestion
== Tracing view

The tracing view is accessible if the in-cluster URL is correctly configured. Each service page will show the Traces tab where a scatter plot is displayed with its related traces.

image::service_traces_tab.png[Service View]

Kiali allows interactions with Jaeger UI via external links: For example, "View Trace in Tracing" goes to the Jaeger UI trace view.

image::trace_view_jaeger.png[Trace View]

== Tracing toolbar
```

> Kiali has a toolbar to control this feature to facilitate the user experience with the tracing service. When we go to the tracing view we'll a form as the image below where we can select the traces interval, results limit, status code, errors, adjust time (expand results on time), last Xm traffic (Traces from last minutes) and refresh time.

Reviewer: Some rephrasing suggestion:
```suggestion
The tracing toolbar offers some control over the data to fetch, to facilitate the user experience. In the tracing view, as shown in the image below, it's possible to select the traces interval, results limit, status code, errors, adjust time (expand results on time), last Xm traffic (Traces from last minutes) and refresh interval.
```

image::form.png[Form Tracing View]

> === Tracing Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Tracing results
```

> When user select a trace kiali shows the information related to that trace like number of spans, spans grouped by operation name, duration, date...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After selecting a trace, Kiali shows the information related to that trace like number of spans, spans grouped by operation name, duration, date...
```

image::kiali_trace.png[Trace view]

> In each span, tags and process are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In each span, tags and processes are displayed.
```

Reviewer: not sure about this one, is it 1 process per span or not?

Author: Yes , checked in Jaeger UI

Author: Yes checked in Jaeger UI

Kiali shows tracing of your applications. We currently support Jaeger version 1.9 and newer (link:https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.12/frontend-ui/#embedded-mode[Read docs, window="_blank"]).

> icon:bullhorn[size=2x]{nbsp} To have the tracing integration, you must set the configuration in external services / tracing.

Reviewer 2: This line is a little bit vague to me. Should we add a link to the affected lines on the kiali CR? Or should we have a solid section in this page saying how to enable tracing features? (e.g. 1. edit the kiali cr, 2. look for the internal jaeger url, 3.). Just thinking out loud. We might reduce the number of questions in the FAQ page.

Reviewer: I agree with @xeviknal we could be more accurate. Tracing integration is supposed to work out of the box in our nominal case so perhaps the user won't have to do anything.

Also, I would remove this text from the "icon:bullhorn" section (just plain paragraph).
What about something along these lines:

```
In most cases, the traces integration in Kiali should be enabled by default without any specific configuration. Kiali will look for the `istio-tracing` service in namespace `istio-system`. However if your setup differs from this default, you would have to provide a specific configuration.

Note also that configuring an external URL for Jaeger will also enable more links from Kiali to Jaeger UI.
```

Then, follow with the configuration details

> == Tracing url set

Reviewer: I would remove "set": just "Tracing url"

> When Tracing url is set, Kiali show a link to the Distributed Tracing in the menu.

Reviewer 2: Once the `url` setting is set on the [Kiali CR](https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/operator/deploy/kiali/kiali_cr.yaml#L448), Kiali **will** show...

image::menu_external_link.png[Distributed Tracing View]

> == Tracing in_cluster_url set

Reviewer: Same here, I would remove "set"

> In each service we'll have a new tab to display the traces for the service in a scatter plot. (If we have error traces this tab will display them)

Reviewer 2: Once the `in_cluster_url` setting is set on the [Kiali CR](https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/operator/deploy/kiali/kiali_cr.yaml#L448), each service page will have the new Traces tab where a scatter plot will be displayed with its related traces. 

I would avoid the usage of `we`.

image::service_traces_tab.png[Service View]

> We can interact with the tracing tool with the external links, for example "View Trace in Tracing" goes to the tracing tool trace view.

Reviewer: "Tracing tool" here means Jaeger, right? I think it would be better to name it explicitly, also to avoid many repetitions with "trace" / "tracing" words. Something like:

Interactions with Jaeger UI is possible thanks to the external links displayed on this page. For example, "View Trace in Tracing" will open the following view:

image::trace_view_jaeger.png[Trace View]

=== Tracing Toolbar

> Kiali have a toolbar to control this feature to facilitate the user experience with the tracing service. When we go to the tracing view we'll a form as the image below where we can select the traces interval, results limit, status code, errors, adjust time (expand results on time), last Xm traffic (Traces from last minutes)  and refresh time.

Reviewer 2: Kiali have -> Kiali has
(Traces from last minutes)  and refresh time -> extra space between ) and next word.

image::form.png[Form Tracing View]

=== Tracing Results

When user select a trace kiali shows the information related to that trace like number of spans, spans grouped by operation name, duration, date...

image::kiali_trace.png[Trace view]

> For each span, we can check the tags and process.

Reviewer 2: In each span, tags and process are displayed.
